In this lecture, you'll learn about VPN, virtual private networks.
I'll start off with site to say VPN and then after this will get on to client to site remote access
VPN.
So with a site to, say, VPN, you can see in my example here, I've got an office in New York and
I've got an office in Boston.
When hosts in New York communicate with each other about traffic will be unencrypted and when hosts
in Boston communicate with each other and not example, that's unencrypted as well.
But when hosts in New York and Boston communicate with each other across the untrusted network of the
Internet, traffic is going to go through our VPN tunnel and it's going to be encrypted.
So anybody on the Internet is able, if not traffic will be Shia, that they won't be able to read it
because it's encrypted traffic.
So you're safe to say VPN used symmetric encryption algorithms such as theirs for triple days and it's
more likely to be nowadays to send encrypted traffic between locations over an untrusted network such
as the Internet.
Traffic inside an office is often left unencrypted as inside the office is often seen as a trusted network.
However, VPN tunnels can also be deployed internally, and Cisco traffic is another, more manageable
solution for internal authentication.
And encryption is not covered in this Youzhny exam.
VPN tunnels typically terminate on a firewall or a router on both sides, and a pressure key can be
configured on both sides of the tunnel or certificate's can be used.
And Certificate's offer a more scalable solution because each of your different tunnels should have
a different key.
You don't want to to use the same key again, because if one tunnel gets compromised, if you were using
the same key everywhere and not means that all of your tunnels are compromised, so Certificate's can
give you a more scalable solution to manage risk.
But to be honest, in real world deployment's p shared keys are very commonly used.
It's just easier to set them up.
IP Shake is a framework of open standards that provide secure encrypted communication on an IP network
and its IP shack that we're going to use for our site to site VPN tunnels.
Incyte IP, Internet key exchange honeypots.
IC handles negotiation of protocols and algorithms and generates the encryption and authentication keys
and ISO camp.
That's Internet Security Association and key management protocol defines the procedures for authenticating
and communicating peer creation and management of security associations.
Isaach Camp typically uses IC for the key exchange so I can ISO comp.
You'll often you'll often find those terms being used interchangeably.
So even though there is a slight difference there, you'll often see them being used as Cinnamon's of
each other.
Authentication header H provides integrity, authentication and protection from replay attacks and ESP
the encapsulating security payload provides confidentiality, integrity, authentication and protection
from replay attacks.
So when you're implementing IP Sheck, you've got the option of doing it either with each other or with
E.S.P.
You may be noticed there was a big one missing for each, which is confidentiality.
When you are using a VPN tunnel, pretty much always you're going to want the actual data to be encrypted.
So you've got the confidentiality.
So ESP is a lot more commonly used than h.s.
And as well as the choice between H and E.S.P, you can also use either tonneau mode or transport mode.
Tunnel mode protects the internal routing information by encrypting the IP header of the original pocket.
The original pocket is encapsulated by another set of IP headers and Hesp tunnel mode is widely implemented
in site site VPN scenarios.
The other option is transport modes, you use one or the other transport mode and trips only the payload
on the ESP trailer, so the IP header of the original pocket is not encrypted and the IP transport mode
is implemented for client site remote access VPN scenarios.